---
layout: post
title: "How I built this:Barre3"
date: 2017-09-23
author: Daisy
---

One evening we put kids to bed in the living room. Chris came up to me and he pulled the spreadsheet out of his pocket 
and he said I've hold this in my pocket for couple weeks. He opened it up, a new wishes spreadsheet, a model of how we could sell our home， all our possessions and drop out and not work for a year -- that is the start to built what we built.

How Sadie Lincoln turned the room with mirrors and ballet barre into a multi million dollar company that's now one of the fastest growing fitness programs in the US.

If you take a little bit of pilates &yoga through some ballet into the makes, you get barre

"when ballet barre meets yoga &pilates"

It's actually been around since 1959 when a former ballerina named Lotte Berk invent whole concept in London but it didn't really begin to take off in the US until this past decade.
And today there are over 700 barre studios around the country. Companies like core fusion, physique 57, pure barre. People who go to barre classes are overwhelmingly women, most of them are just going for the exercises, they actually connected to the culture around whole barre movement. it's  about building confidence and "steam", but it's also big business. The whole "" fitness sector which barre is definitely a part of  is now a 30 billion industry. And one of the best known fitness barre Sadie Lincoln, her company barre3 now has about 130 locations all around the world. And company is still privately owned by Sadie and her husband Chris and just one outside investor.
All of this made them rich & celebrity fitness grew.

Sadie's mum and her four best friend drop-out 
They were living in California, yet they found each other They are kind of Gypsy like they are travelling around together. They ended up in Desino Mexico and each of them ended up have a child. The dads are sweat. They basically raised their kids "clubdively" 

It was a time of exploration. It's a time for them to go in work, look inside, live close to nature, create and discover a new way of living. 
There are 6 kids all together.  
Was fitness part of your early childhood?
We used to do "what we hot boogie" parties put on a red record and boogie. Dance on butts off "...Beatles" Loving moving
How did your mom "" me?
First of all, we're often on footsteps. Once they got secure, they created their own business. They created a newspaper called "what's happening", weekly publication.
Did you sometimes feel like a weird kid/different kid? Yes. I tried to play normal.  
Were you embarrassed?  My mom was Brooklyn star. They were cool, smoking weed before it's legal. 
I was a horrible student in high school. I went to alternative school. I did a great deal of confidence there. We did pottery, dance, music, but I didn't learn the basics. middle school  didn't have the foundation nor interest. I just can survive on having fun.
After high school. Sadie took off to LA. She become an actor, in the meantime she takes classes in Santa Monica College. A couple years end she transfer to UCLA.
During that time she really into fitness classes. 
After college Sadie decide to look for work in the fitness industry.
I landed a job in company 24 hours fitness and she wanted to move to San Francisco.
She was hired to run all of the group "backsize" for 25 gyms.   They were acquiring gyms at a rapid pay. We had around 50 gyms  I ended up "" for 11 years  when I left we had 430 locations.  
A massive explosive gross. 
Around 1~2 years she ended up reporting directly to CEO Mark Mastrov.
Everything from sells to brand strategy which is her favorite.
She traveled all over the world, Asia, Spain, Italy. Besides 24 fitness she became partner of gyms in Russia.

She met her husband Chris in San Francisco at super bowl party.
He worked at a startup 'surfer' company.  
Chris had couple launches with Mark, Mark pulled Chris into the  loop as well. 
Mark put us on projects together, It was a wonderful testing ground as business partner how we work together.
We bought a house in bay area. We had two children back to back  18 month apart. 
Any crisis?  Make a big life change？
The first crisis for me I think happen before I was pregnant with my first child. I have a booming business, my career is booming. I was making a great salary. We are buying a house all that good staff.
My own health was declining. I didn't feel good.
I just been 'emerge' in fitness industry  wasn't working in my own body.I was really uncomfortable of my skin. I didn't feel alive inside. I was working out very hard every day, counting how many calories I was eating/ expanding. Scientific calories in/out.
What changed? The alternate opportunities to realize ""
inside your body   baby  connected and happy   
what health really was? following someone else formula
I started do yoga at home. Maybe I'm not feeling fitness Maybe fitness is feeling me. I'm probably not alone.
We were lonely, really lonely as a couple
We were having a hard time finding belongings. We didn't have strong community.
-----以下未经修改---
Just you and me     he was having a bad time relating to business as he was managing the studios  managing 24hours fitness  I remember this moment  walking into the room and he was on speak phone   manager was working with coaching him   they were on an unconference call   
we feel empty 
maybe 2 years  he come up with all kinds of different business plans from plant watering business to pizza nail studios  backdrop  he had a good job  I think things moving along very well 
one evening we put the kids bed  we were in living room  Chris came up to me  A model how we could sell our home all our possessions and move to "" and drop out and not work for a year
outrageous idea  one of the hottest things he's ever done
every single penny into a dream job that might fail but we don't care
try to build a life for ourselves that will feel free
that was the start to building what we built with barre 3
with the money you move to Oregon?
we ended up deciding on Portland 
how much cash did you guys has to live on?
we went down one car  we parked all our belongings in the car 
and moving van we moved our two kids and a cat to Portland Oregon rent a small little house 
how much did you put towards this business idea?
only investment is Mark  he gives us a small investment  under 200000 dollars  the house we probably has 300000~400000   life savings  that was the cushion 
pull much of that into this business idea
what was the concept?
I became enamored with studio culture and going to yoga studios going to barre studios   in late 90s early 2000 barre was really igniting in New York and San Fransisco
barre? barre back then was based of Lotte Berk Method which she was a dancer  basic ballet barre  her first instructors start the first barre studios Core Fusion, Physique 57, The Bar Method
take these classes   I was treat by them 
for one thing they were reminded me of sort of an contemporary 'jazz sized' to be honest
and then using the ballet barre as a prog just has this instinct grace and art and 'inheritage' really attractive to me
when you decided to open a barre studio   competitors outside  
different  by try customers by doing this
we move to Portland     there was no barre around us
I loved using ballet barre "" pilates & small movements & music 
I want to create a studio that instead of being something  being  an answer  being a methodology   Sadie Lincoln's method or Barre 3 method  just want to be an exercise experience 
from the very beginning  "" menu
the very first sentence is 
the one thing that never changes our barre3 is for always changing.   at the very beginning of class every instructors will start by saying 
welcome to barre3, I gave you 4 permission to do something different "than I say"
your only job is to listen not to me but yourself 
I'm your guide, we're going to turn the music on and to show you how you lend your body and want you to make it your own.
just as an idea introduce people  when you passed by the studio and you saw the thing barre3  a lot of people  men would say "what is this barre?" "what is this thing?" the first thought
I had a tag line at the beginning "when ballet barre meets yoga and pilates"
how did you come up with the routine ? did you spend like weeks and months kind of writing it down or ?
20 years all different concepts  I started to piece together
the concepts that balance the body  so I really focus on working  apposing muscle groups and every exercise  
If I work the "" equally with the ""
I had this whole system.
when you open your doors it is August 2008? Y
Was it right away with it like a hit to people?  people like to come in? or curiosity
Before I even open our studio I taught free classes upstairs 
the day we finally got the permit to open the doors
I send an email to the community that was coming to my free classes 
I said hey I got my certificate of "", I'm going to teach class tonight 
I thought maybe a couple of people will show up  my friends  
12 people showed and paid that night  send out email to 45
this is gona work
hire a babysitter to be at the studio, so their kids and their clients' kids can also come to the studio.
busy mom of two kids   we want to have a community  we want to plays when we can attract people that were inspirational, thoughtful, connected, exciting to be around 
It was just two of us at the beginning. 
one of my girlfriends who would move to the bay area, she taught one or two classes in the evening.
but I check everybody in, open the door, check everybody in   clean the bathroom, taught 19 classes, 6am to 8pm. I was there 
I knew every single client 
Mary Ellen, she was the first person to sign the membership.
how much did you have to pay the class   20 dollars 
was it cheap?  around 5 dollars more than yoga 
how much runway did you have before this had actually start making a profit? I think our return was maybe 6 months also.
pretty quick return   starting with 19 classes a week 10~12people 
you must be stress out？ Yeah
teaching 19 classes a week is not healthy It is not balance.
the shortest story is my body broke. 
my mom says honey, you're embodying your business
because I was walking around like a 90-year old women with my back slipover
"this isn't good" that was a moment I was training instructors at the time I did have some relief  but I learned that to be healthy it really is OK to pause, to not move, to not achieve, to not to have an outlook expression of what exercise means.
you still manage to open up a second location pretty fast right?
the first year we are open we put up a tab on our website that's grow with us   we got instant interest 
what that mean, like start your own barre 3?
we knew we had / we grew up an industry we knew how to run multi operations  so going into barre 3 we thought let's open maybe open twenty of this in the specific northwest
our model should be franchise?
we have this unique knowledge with "" industries
so instead of raising money to open our own  let's look into this franchise model  which is really ultimately about 'empowering' someone else 
to invest in this idea that we have our wisdom and open up their own business 
so instead of going to venture capitalized   banks or what ever 
you didn't have to / want to be beholding to institutional money
instead I was really excited about the idea of being beholding  into other people just like me    who had a dream want to open their own business   and be able to make their own 
where was the second location?
our first two partners design were the Philippines and Manila and Bend Oregon 
so you franchised immediately to manila 
this women came  her name is Tanya Tan   she was in the states and discovered us  and her family is very 'entrepreneur ial '
they have a family business and their children each have different business models  and she is the youngest '' children  she chose barre 3
because you and Chris had this experience at 24hours fitness 
franchising   you know how to "instruct' it 
we were bullish that way  exciting  adventure  we knew we could do it internationally with the right partner
and then Darcy in Bend was close enough  and she was coming to class  really a part of our tribe  shortly after that was 'carry' who opened ''  20 minutes away  so most of our franchise partners were our clients    so they came to barre3, loved barre3, knew barre3, when owner operated it 
unlike some franchisees   our franchisees own and operate 
live and breath a product    teach and manage and be the face of it   we had Jerry Murrell on the shows, the founder five guys  which is like what's the fastest growing very different business from yours--burgers and fries
he was supposed to it like all his son part of five guys  they were like "Dad, let's do this." and he really didn't want to do because to him like the burgers    they were serving fries   it was great  it keep controlling the quality   completely 'oppose' the idea  he feels differently today 
were you nervous about handing over your concepts to somebody like screw it up? 
no  I really do believe in people    our product isn't a burger  it's a person  it's someone teaching a class and I cannot pretend be able to control that   because I can't control other people nor do I want to 
It's a creative person  you spend a years on honing  there's no way that you just hand it over and say go run with it  you had get there mentally I have to assume
It's person by person   we would meet with these people and see if there is a deep connection    I believed in our training program I believe in my ability  eduction  I love training and developing people 
bring to fitness this idea    teaching and true teacher 
teachers who really brought something out of me   
they had the answers  they spark something inside of me that made me realize I have the answers  and I love doing that with body /movement  I love showing people that you can first of all run your own studio and you can do it your own way 
here is our blue print   but you now get to go  and put your own finger print on it   because I do not want you to copy  this is not the Sadie Lincoln Method   entire grow-up company  and your true power   all of my owners is they connected with them   just like we were 'raised'   not the word "chain"  we are family of owners    
problems？  emotional   it's scary and emotional  those first partners took a big risk
when you franchise   you can't fire someone   you're in a partnership    it's for the long term   me and Chris our job is always keep that values up   so they see that importance being connected to something bigger   and you know that's really will drives me on beholding to all of these partners 
you're the CEO of the company? Y
How many locations do you guys on?
we own 6 locations and then we have 124 franchise
as you guys were just expanding /exploding growth   is this crazy?
right in the middle  I kinda of lost myself in it 
we were booming   we are getting a great price 
being a fitness celebrity in a way 
fell into marketing machine   leave Portland decide shut out all our traditional marketing 
I was in publications    working with producers in LA
everybody was telling me this way of speaking about fitness 
this is the ways about what you doing 
face of it  videos     you didn't want to embrace that? I did want because the idea of growing and serving the company that way was really exciting to me  and be able to get that kind of attention and to feel our business were super exciting 
that really helps
it went against my 'intuition' about not being 'a'
and I don't want to feed the messages that already so loud "loud and clear everywhere "
if you workout, you do these things you're gonna look like this 
I was getting trained by producers     get hair make up 
we have online workouts 
I hired a make-up person   be more self conscious about what I were on camera   I started to speak in different language 
under the videos  people who were commenting me  they were checking me    my clients  the people who are part of my movement were checking me at the door  
in terms of growing bigger   we've paused franchising for now 
being steel and comfortable     check in and see things 
if you look at a company as a person, we've decided to be steel.
what was the reason?    
could cashed out like majorly
feel like I want to be a bit of rabble, so I am seeking right now other CEOs, other founders ...
protect what I have    make a giant 
want to show the business community that you could do it that way
the value of not growing /selling 
companies are not profitable but they are sustainable 
breaking even every year
able them to hire more than a thousand people  lot's of companies focus on profit   not sustainability  just creating jobs for people 
you can do a 30 days extreme program with your body 
you know exercise every single day is nothing right 
drink tons of water  get 10 hours sleep every single day  leave lots of weights and get tremendous results  that's like exciting   
tremendously changing your body 
is that sustainable to exercise every single day until to be that '' not for most people 
it's a short term outcome and that is the story we sold over and over again with fitness
sustainability model of body   exercise 10 minutes a day being in touch with the food you're eating   that is ok to drink a glass of wine  the relationship is just as healthy as exercise  developing a long term relationship with exercise   sustainable actually going to benefit your posture you live longer ...
partner?
I can imagine a way of not working with Chris 
we talked about our business a lot 
how much of what happened to you guys  do a lot ? skill? ability?
timing is great for us   people want connection in community 
teacher   moving to Portland is just the right moment --focus

=============================================
Did you know that B3 founder and CEO Sadie Lincoln was raised by a group of hippie moms? Or that in order to start B3, Sadie and her husband Chris sold everything they owned? Or that in a world of “bigger is better,” B3 has made the bold decision to focus on quality over quantity?

You’ll get the full scoop on Sadie and Chris’s inspiring story in today’s episode of How I Built This, the wildly popular NPR podcast (hosted by the incredible Guy Raz) about innovators and the movements they’ve built. Host Guy Raz and Sadie talk about everything from Sadie’s upbringing to B3’s humble beginnings to what it’s like to franchise to places as far away as the Philippines.
=============================================
barre3 Founder
SADIE LINCOLN
Sadie Lincoln is the co-founder and CEO of barre3.

Beginning with her flagship barre3 studio in Portland, Oregon, Sadie created a unique style of whole-health fitness classes committed to mind and body results. Her modern approach offers accessible programs and inspiration for balanced living. Barre3’s worldwide franchise locations and Online Workouts have attracted A-list celebrities, every day parents and major publications such as Fast Company, Self, Nylon, and Entrepreneur.

Sadie began teaching group exercise 20 years ago while attending UCLA. She was awarded a Graduate Assistantship from the College of William & Mary, where she developed and ran the group fitness program while earning her master’s degree in higher education administration.

Since opening her first studio in 2008, barre3’s innovative, results-driven workout and whole-body-health approach are breaking new ground. In addition to more than 100 studios around the globe and 250+ do-anywhere online workouts, barre3 offers hundreds of delicious, whole-foods-based recipes, a thriving digital magazine; and an annual retreat that inspires healthy, balanced living.

Today, Sadie is thrilled to lead barre3 while raising her two kids alongside her husband and business partner, Chris.
==========================================
作者：泓杉
链接：https://www.zhihu.com/question/32246334/answer/154101276
来源：知乎
著作权归作者所有。商业转载请联系作者获得授权，非商业转载请注明出处。

我尝试超过300小时的barre class, 在纽约和西海岸不下10个barre studio, 包括Pure Barre, Exhale Spa, Bar Method, FlyBarre, Physique 57, Xtend Barre.... 简单谈一下我的感受：1. 什么是barre? Barre 是使用芭蕾舞的技巧，用微型运动（micro movements）着眼于小肌肉群的塑造，你会感受到有些从未运动过的肌肉在发力。它是轻盈柔美的，但需要强大的力量才能控制身体。2. 一堂课的基本流程：热身 (warm up)、核心力量 (core)、手臂和肩膀 (arms and shoulders) 、大腿 (thighs)、臀部 (seat)、再回归核心和背部 (core and back)、最后的伸展 (stretch)，每个小节之间都有一定程度的拉伸。3. 它是有氧（cardio），也是力量（weight），每一堂课都配着动听的音乐，让你大汗淋漓；刚开始练习，你的肌肉甚至会颤抖，而这正是你燃烧脂肪最热烈的时候。4. 如果一周练习三次以上，你两周内就可以看到明显的效果，你的身体肌肉脂肪会神奇的重组(redistribute)，你会看到你的腹部变平了，seat 更翘了，腿部线条更长更lean了。5. 它运用多种工具，从哑铃到球，到弹力带，还有拉伸用的瑜伽绳。要善于利用这些工具，调节你训练的难易度。比如做腹肌训练时，你可以在腰部垫上一只球，可以减轻难度；但如果一边做腹部提起，同时用双手挤压球，难度会大大提高，而你的马甲线也会更快显现，而球最好不要充气过满。6. 我个人非常喜欢barre，觉得它是最好的运动方式之一，既有cardio照顾小心脏，又对塑形起到非常大的作用。然而，动作太重要了，alignment is everything，不然看不到明显的效果，虽然也会瘦了（因为有cardio）。7. 喜欢它的另外一个原因是它源于芭蕾，grace 和elegance，塑造纤长的肌肉，还能够帮助我们打开身体。女孩子随着年龄的增长，身体会越来越紧，尤其是髋部，hips 的前端，而barre 就可以对抗时间和重力在我们身体上留下的痕迹。8. 还有一个很重要的原因，微小的重复性的韵律其实就像therapy 一样，让你放空，有治愈的效果。怪不得一个朋友说：“barre is my meditation（barre是我的冥想练习）"。