---
layout: post
title: "Planet Money Episode 735: President Trump"
date: 2016-11-11
tags:
 - Planet Money
---

[Transcript原文](http://www.npr.org/templates/transcript/transcript.php?storyId=501747113)

<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/501747113/501790540" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"></iframe>


- you are NPR's Senior White House [correspondent]{通讯记者}.

- He wants to [deport]{驱逐出境} criminal immigrants, drain the [swamp]{使...人满为患} of corruption in Washington and undo what Trump calls stupid trade deals.

- Donald Trump talked a lot about wanting to [repeal]{废除} Obamacare on the campaign trail. 

- We asked Stacey Vanek Smith to look into this to see if Trump actually can [dismantle]{拆除} Obamacare within his first hundred days, and if so, how he'd go about it. 

- And he's spent most of his career researching health care reform and [advocating]{提倡} for universal coverage. 

- As the night wore on, what I saw, Stacey, was basically roughly 25 years of my life being [repudiated]{拒绝} by half our nation. 

- In that lawsuit, the House Republicans were saying the Obama administration was spending tens of billions of dollars [unconstitutionally]{违反宪法的} because Congress had not [appropriated]{占用} the money. 

- those insurance companies, some of whom are already [wary]{谨慎的} of the Obamacare program, might bolt for good.

- who is eager to see the law [unraveled]{解开}

- and replace it with something that offers coverage to a much smaller [fraction]{分数}

- this was sort of one of the greatest hits at Donald Trump [rallies]{集会} around the country where he'd talk about building that great big beautiful wall along the U.S. southern border with Mexico. 

- this would be a massive [logistical]{后勤方面的} [undertaking]{工作}. 

- I am the owner and CEO of Superior [Concrete]{混凝土的} Products.

- done some [arithmetic]{算术} about what it would take to wall off the U.S. southern border.

- the first big [hurdle]{障碍} would be there are people along the border who own some of this land who might not want a big wall going up on their property.

- That's an [eminent]{杰出的} domain situation. 

- Republicans in particular are usually [opposed]{反对} to the idea of the government taking over private property for some [ostensible]{表面的} public purpose.

- About five million [lineal]{直系的} feet.

- He was [muttering]{嘟哝} numbers.

- It would be about 250,000 [truckloads]{货车荷载} of - you know, the concrete trucks. 

- so there's some steel [rebar]{钢筋} you'd need as well.

- the amount of money that it would cost would just be [astronomical]{天文的}.

- They were being [prosecuted]{检举} for using illegal immigrant labor to do some of the construction.

- He says the U.S. has left [treaties]{条约} before, like defense treaties. But this was not without [controversy]{争论}. 

- if it's [constitutional]{宪法的} for the president to just do this alone without Congress. 

- There could be lawsuits [galore]{大量的}. 

- if you can prove you've been [legitimately]{合理地} harmed, then yes, yes, you could. And so we might finally get a [definitive]{决定性的} answer to the question of whether the president has the power to cancel NAFTA all on his own.

- they could always [punt]{踢悬空球} it back to Congress and the president to work out themselves.

- his [populous]{人口稠密的} supporters.

- the swamp is [shorthand]{速记法的} for this idea that there is a corrupt group that's doing favors for each other in Washington. 

- On the topic of [lobbyists]{说客}, Trump has also said he supports this.

- All he has to do is make his staff sign a [pledge]{保证} not to lobby for five years after they leave government. 

- And they started immediately giving out [exemptions]{免除}, or pretty quickly giving out exemptions, to be able to get people to work for the government.

- Congress has been historically [reluctant]{不情愿的} to limit what its members can do once they leave office.

- yesterday a document started [circulating]{传播} around Washington, D.C. 

- I do have to say, draining the swamp, [reining]{控制} in lobbyists, that was kind of a late addition to the Donald Trump [repertoire]{全部节目} of promises

- The vast majority of [apprehensions]{理解} happen by a local law [enforcement]{执行} officer.

- you have to [detain]{拘留} them, house them, feed them, clothe them and guard them. Once you've [apprehended]{理解} the folks and you've put them in a [detention]{拘留} center, there's still some due process to get through.
