---
layout: post
title: "Planet Money Episode 521: The Town That Loves Death"
date: 2016-10-05
tags:
 - Planet Money
---

[Transcript原文](http://www.npr.org/templates/transcript/transcript.php?storyId=496751771)

<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/496751771/496761553" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"></iframe>

He was a truck [mechanic]{技工}, same background, sense of humor. 

George and Betty planned to [shovel]{铲除} the snow on Saturday

It's all written up in some paperwork filed in her home with [duplicates]{副本} at the hospital. 

Neither one of us want [chemotherapy]{化学疗法}.

Why were you talking about [chemo]{化疗}?

La Crosse, Wis. 
Mississippi River
Iowa and Minnesota

That is an [astounding]{令人震惊的} number.

the [burial]{葬礼} question.

maybe I want to be [cremated]{火葬}. So we both were thinking of cremation inside the [mausoleum]{陵墓} there.

in the [urns]{骨灰瓮}

And I kind of [awkwardly]{尴尬地} mentioned that they have a [rap]{闲聊} on the block for [neglecting]{疏忽} to make end-of-life plans. 

the LeGrandes have been [nagging]{唠叨} us about that for a while.

Their [sparkly-eyed]{泪光闪闪} teenager Annie says, it's OK. We've talked about all that stuff before

I'm not [evaluating]{评价}...

I'm not [assessing]{评定} the value of the song as a funeral song. 

the story of the one place in America that is at ease with [mortality]{死亡数}.

its [demise]{死亡}.

the discussion was [excruciating]{折磨人的}.

the [anguish]{痛苦}.

The moral [distress]{痛苦} that these families were suffering was [palpable]{明显的}. 

they would never have any [clarity]{清楚} about whether they made the right decision.

The thing that was especially [maddening]{令人发狂的} to Bud about these conversations was that they were entirely predictable.

not giving them any opportunity to have a voice in their care should they become [incapacitated]{欠缺行为能力}.

Take the [dialysis]{透析} center at Gunderson Health Systems

do I want to go on a [ventilator]{呼吸机} or not? 

And one of the [surgeons]{外科医生} came up afterwards and said

the more [routine]{日常的} the question is

[Hysterectomy]{子宫切除}.

In La Crosse, even if it takes you until you are actually [confronting]{面对} a life-ending illness to take a look at these questions, it won't be the first time you're considering them. 

sitting on his favorite [recliner]{躺椅} at home, and he's dying. Glenn's [prostate]{前列腺的} cancer has spread to his bones. He's in [hospice]{收容所}. 

And Laura, the nurse, [masterfully]{专横的，技巧熟练的} guides Jenny to a chair next to Glenn to have a conversation Jenny clearly does not want to have.

You know, when people have a [chronic]{慢性的} illness like you have, sometimes [complications]{并发症} can occur. 

It's impossible for her to cover all the [scenarios]{方案} under which Glenn may die, so the more specifics she can get from Glenn for his wife, Jenny, to hear him say, the better.

Laura, the nurse, puts a hand on Jenny's knee but [forges ahead]{继续进行}.

And then she [mumbles]{咕哝}.

And the conversations actually help explain this other [salient]{显著的} fact about La Crosse, something I haven't mentioned yet but is also very unusual.

There's a [billing]{广告} code for a hysterectomy, for a hip replacement. 

For us, we spend money on a program that [ultimately]{最后} will decrease our [revenue stream]{收入来源}.

But if I tried to take it away now, he says, the community would [revolt]{反感}.

[Bureaucrats]{官僚} who will [ration]{定量} care if the bill goes through as Obama wants it to go through.

That figure hasn't [budged]{挪动} and neither has Bud. 

When I'm able to make this [transition]{过渡} from one home to another, as it were, and we have in place the next group of leaders, I'll be happy to step down.

The program is going to move to a national [coalition]{联合} called the Coalition to Transform Advanced Care. 

the [Netherlands]{荷兰}.

on your [commute]{通勤} 
