---
layout: post
title: "Planet Money Episode 738: The Russian Rodeo"
date: 2016-11-25
tags:
 - Planet Money
---

[Transcript原文](http://www.npr.org/templates/transcript/transcript.php?storyId=503158885)

<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/503158885/503218051" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"></iframe>


- it's kind of hard to hear on the tape, but he is [lassoing]{用套索套捕} a [stack]{堆} of square hay [bales]{大包}. It's a kind of [dummy]{虚拟的} bull, and he's just like - throw, sinch, repeat. 

- [hauled]{拖运} cows. 

- A [recruiter]{招聘人员} from a cattle [ranch]{牧场} offered to pay him double what he was making. 

- he filled a suitcase with his warmest clothes and the [saddle]{鞍} his dad made for him. 

- Today on the show, cowboy ex-pats, [beefsteak]{牛排} [oligarchs]{寡头} and the amazing story of the first Russian [porterhouse]{小酒店} steak.

- near the [Ukrainian]{乌克兰的} border. 

- They bought up a bunch of land in the province of Bryansk to do cattle [ranching]{经营牧场} and make American-style Angus steak.

- They imported grass from Europe, [parasite]{寄生虫} killers for the animals and [vaccines]{疫苗} for them, 60,000 units of bull [semen]{精液} to [artificially]{人造的} [inseminate]{受胎} the cows and 10 [ultrasound]{超声} machines to check when they're pregnant.

- how to move them from [pasture]{草地} to pasture.

- They'd never dealt with this [breed]{品种} of cattle.

- like how to tie a [lasso]{套索} [knot]{结} 

- I got asked to go to a place where they were [pasturing]{放牧} a bunch of [steers]{小公牛}.

- That turned into a bad [fiasco]{惨败}.

- I love [herding]{集中畜群} cows with a bicycle bell. 

- you might be fixing a fence or pulling a thousand-pound cow out of a [gulch]{峡谷} or you're helping a cow give birth in the middle of a [blizzard]{暴风雪} at 4:00 in the morning.

- At every ranch that I visited, I saw these posters - these [laminated]{层压的} sheets of paper with instructions on them. 

- I think there were even [illustrations]{插图}, which, like - you know, I used to report on ranches in the States. 

- was also like an IKEA version of a cattle ranch - shipped over, [assembled]{集合}, with instructions.

- it tastes very [savory]{可口的} and salty and delicious

- it's [stewed]{炖}

- They're kind of tough and [lean]{瘦的}.

- and they're also a lot more [docile]{温顺的} as animals. 

- How do you [squeeze]{压榨} 150 years of cowboy history into a decade?

- the [rodeo]{竞技表演}.

- and the songs that the teams enter to are [patriotic]{爱国的} like in the U.S.

- And the [chorus]{合唱队} is something like - don't be an idiot, America (laughter).

- It's just like a way to show off and build [camaraderie]{友情}.

- When Shawn's contract [expires]{到期} the end of this month, he can go home knowing that he will leave something behind. 

- He had a cowboy shirt on and jeans and this, like, [camouflage]{伪装} [vest]{背心} and button-up shirt and boots and everything. And he just had this, like, [aura]{光环} about him. 

- and he's [bashful]{害羞的}.

- He only [approximates]{近似} the American cowboy, as if he knows he's a kind of a [counterfeit]{假冒的} copy.

- It could go well or go terribly [awry]{扭曲的}.
