---
layout: post
title: "Planet Money Episode 731: How Venezuela Imploded"
date: 2016-10-21
---

[Transcript原文](http://www.npr.org/templates/transcript/transcript.php?storyId=498867764)

<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/498867764/498906957" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"></iframe>



- a [neurosurgeon]{神经外科医生}
 
- I didn't want to [jeopardize]{危害} anybody's life because of being [irresponsible]{不负责任的}.

- It's in the [midst]{当中} of this economic crisis - [collapse]{倒塌} is probably a better word. 

- There are [riots]{暴乱}. Inflation is [estimated]{估计} at 500 percent. And there are these rolling [blackouts]{停电} across the city, which is a bad thing for neurosurgeons.

- It is [inconceivable]{不可思议的} how they operate hospitals in Venezuela anymore, but they do. 

- There are no [sutures]{缝合}. Patients have to bring their own food, their own [gauzes]{纱布}.

- Infant [mortality]{死亡数} is rising - up 20 percent from last year. Diseases like [tuberculosis]{肺结核} and [malaria]{疟疾} are coming back. 

- And the neurosurgeon says he would walk through the [corridors]{走廊} of the hospital and see patients just lying on the floor on [blankets]{毯子} and on [mattresses]{床垫} they brought from home.

- It had money and [prestige]{威望} and, most importantly, it had oil. Venezuelans used to [brag]{吹牛} that they had the largest reserves of oil in the world.

- [El diablo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Diablo_(comics))...

- "I can still smell the [sulfur]{硫磺}."

- Hugo Chavez made a sport of straight-up [trolling]{轮唱} the United States whenever he could. 

- in New York [featuring]{起重要作用} Joe Kennedy.

- He was a [populist]{民粹主义者}. 

- Food [subsidies]{补贴}, you know, education programs - pretty much, it was a time of economic [bonanza]{富矿带}.

- [dominate]{控制} the economy.

- And in the meantime, everything else in the economy [wilted]{枯萎的}. 

- because the oil business was [lucrative]{有利可图的} enough.

- Absolutely, ready-made and not have to worry about having to go through all the [procedures]{程序} and, you know, investment [domestically]{国内的} to have to do that, you just buy from abroad - right? 

- then [convert]{转变} it to the Venezuelan currency, called [bolivars]{委内瑞拉银币}.

- Underwear, jeans, dress shirts, casual shirts, sweaters, jackets, [blazers]{正装夹克}.

- They printed entire official [gazette]{公报} documents where...

- What is this, [alphabetical]{字母的}? 

- You would find men's underwear made out of [polyester]{聚酯}, cotton, other [fabrics]{织物}.

- And then you would check in the book if the government [deemed]{认为} this important enough to buy, essentially.

- All this [bureaucracy]{官僚主义} was just to see if he could exchange his local bolivars for dollars.

- Mothers [weeping]{哭泣}, children weeping, adult men weeping.

- But there's nothing that we can do to [stem]{阻止} the decline of oil. 

- And every trap set by Hugo Chavez gets [sprung]{蹦跳} at the same time.

- That [spigot]{龙头} is turned off. So the government starts being [stingy]{吝啬的} with them. 

- Inflation [soared]{高飞}.

- We will [mandate]{授权} price controls. 

- We wanted to import a shipment of [non-woven]{无纺布} fabric, which is basically that blue fabric that's used for surgical [robes]{长袍}.

- This is a country in the middle of a political [stalemate]{僵局} because no politician wants to do the [drastic]{激烈的} things

- And so but we just really [crave]{渴望} those good times.

- which is that the whole economy is based on something [volatile]{挥发性的}. 


